---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: Is the Grass Always Greener?
category:
tags: [ 'immigration', 'canadian', 'american', 'green card' ]
---

_Every now and then, I'm sure the thought "Is the grass greener on the other side?" crosses our minds. Whether it be a potential job opportunity, relationships, or a place to call home, how do you know what's right or rather, better for you?_

---

<br>

### __Three years and eight months__

When I first arrived to the US on my TN Visa, which I've wrote about [here](http://henryng.com/education/2016/04/17/faq.html), the advice of one of my mentors was that I consider immediately starting the green card process. To be honest with you, the plan from the beginning was to work here for 3 years, and return to Toronto, or go wherever life takes me. That meant that this was all very intentionally temporary. Until I got my green card in the mail. It was an emotional moment for me, but what once felt very temporary, now feels potentially permanent.

<br>

---

<br>

### __My experience and the sacrifices I made__

The process was an extremely gruesome one, from participating in the notorious lottery known as the H1B three times, being travel-restricted for 8 months, to processing times that felt like an eternity. Needless to say, this caused a lot of strain on my personal relationships. This meant not seeing those that I care about for a unexpected long duration of time. For those that made the effort to come visit me and for those that were flexible for me, I'm eternally grateful. The easy thing to do was drown myself in work, especially with so much uncertainty and no transparency of how the process was going to go. But there was a bigger sacrifice here -- and that was the initial move.

<br>

---

<br>

### __The thought process__

When I moved to Silicon Valley, it took me some time to realize what I was essentially doing was ripping myself away from everything in my life that I spent 25 years building. And it took me even longer to realize that I had to rebuild my entire life from the ground up, especially considering that I had no ties here whatsoever. I've had a few people ask me how I came about my decision, and tell me how brave it was. The answer wasn't clear at first -- it was just "something I had to do". But as I took some time to reflect on it, and really think through why I made those decisions -- it was a very clear and deliberate choice. I wasn't satisfied with the comfort of Toronto. I was uncomfortable with how comfortable it was. What I needed exactly was to be ripped away from the ecosystem.

<br>

---

<br>

# _The risk of standing still outweighed the risk of this new endeavor_

<br>

---

<br>

Could I keep doing what I was doing for the rest of my life? Could I live with not trying to figure out if there's another ecosystem better for me? Time and time again, the clear answer to me was always a resounding no. I couldn't continue working in jobs where I didn't feel fulfilled.  I couldn't continue living in a culture of comfortable. I couldn't live with 5 months of winter. Jokes aside, I knew I needed to break away. I needed meaningful work. I needed people who would challenge me every day. I needed to become a better version of myself.

<br>

---

<br>

### __Ask yourself__

As I initially alluded to, this problem presents itself in many aspects of your life. How do I know the person I'm dating or in a relationship with is the best person for me? How do I know I want to settle down in this city? How do I know if I should find a new job or take this job offer?

All these situations present themselves with unique context, but they all are, a part of, or affect important pillars of one's life: love, personal development, professional development, and family. To help bring some clarity to the uncertainty, here are some questions to ask yourself:

Relationships:
- What do I need in a relationship?
- How does this person make me feel?
- What does effort look like for this person?
- What does consistency look like for this person?
- Do I believe this person has the capacity to grow with me? Can I be myself around them? Can I grow with them? Why or why not?
- What are my values?
- Why can't this work?
- What does consistency look like together?
- What are my dealbreakers?
- How will I handle differences of opinion with this person?

Career:
- What type of work am I interested in?
- What industries of work am I interested in?
- What type of leadership do I need?
- What type of mentorship do I need?
- What's the organization culture like? What's the team culture like?
- How is the company structured?
- What does my compensation need to be to live a lifestyle that I want?
- What will I spend most of my time doing?
- What will my career trajectory look like working here?
- What do other employees have to say about working there for an extended period of time?

Relocation:
- How does this affect my personal relationships?
- What are my professional goals?
- What types of activities do I enjoy?
- What are the people like?
- How well does this place fit with my ideal ecosystem of starting a family?
- What's the weather like? (wink)
- How well do the values of the people there fit with my values?
- What's the job market like?
- What's the healthcare system like?
- What policies have the government put in to place at all relevant levels?

You'll notice there are some overlapping questions. The premise here is to establish a good understanding of yourself and what you need, or go through a process to figure it out.

Ask questions. Ask your family, friends, or whoever. You're not in this alone.

<br>

---

<br>

### __A mathematical, logical, risk-averse approach__

There's this approach known as the [secretary problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secretary_problem). The whole purpose of the approach is to answer the question - "when does my search end?" or sometimes "when is enough?". It's more commonly applied to the marriage problem, but depending on your circumstances, it could also apply to where you decide to live, and your career, though maybe less applicable if where you live and what you decide to do will always be there. It's worth mentioning that caveat because a key constraint presented by the secretary problem is that whatever you decide to give up will no longer be accessible to you (you won't be able to date the person you gave up on, you won't be able to purchase that house you gave up, you won't be able to join that team you said no to). The answer to all your problems? Estimate your pool of eligible "suitors" given whatever criteria you feel meets the definition of a "suitor". Go through your "exploration" phase of the first 37%. After that, the next "suitor" that is better than all of the first 37%, you end your search.

Now, I don't agree with applying this literally to tough decisions, but I do believe in exploration, understanding yourself better, and understanding your options. And sometimes, you don't even need to learn these things through direct experience. You can "use the foresight of others as your hindsight" as Shane Parish has said. So derive whatever value you see from the secretary problem.

(You might be surprised that such people exist who try to implement this. If you're one of those people, be wary that there's a chance that the first 37% could be duds, or you could start off with the best "suitors" in the first 37%. Each scenario could result in an undesirable outcome -- establishing a superficially low bar in the former case, and missing out on something great in the latter case)

<br>

---

<br>

### __As for me__

Well, I hope it's comforting to know that I don't have it all figured out. I've lived in many places across the Peninsula in my 3.5 years here, but I haven't lived in San Francisco yet. So for me, the next step is to try San Francisco out for size.

<br>

---

<br>

### __How's San Francisco?__

What I've realized as an undervalued benefit of living in San Francisco is coincidental collisions. I've been surprised how many times I've randomly bumped into people I know and subsequently have more meaningful relationships blossom out of that. So when it comes to being in an environment that is conducive of serendipity, I'm all in. I mean, what's the price you'd pay for luck?

On the other hand, LA is another one of my eligible suitors. I've been deliberately taking advantage of any opportunity I get to experience LA and live more like a local. So instead of exploring and doing touristy stuff, I've tried staying in LA for upwards of a week, to hang out with friends at local speakeasies, and bring my workout routine to different gyms.

The benefit of experiencing these cities myself is so that I can establish my own opinion of what a city is like, instead of having someone else's judgment color my thoughts of the city. Albeit potentially helpful (where there is smoke, there is usually fire), there will be people who just echo what others say without any bases, so I use my judgment when to take their opinions with a grain of salt.
